Fast Pair firmware update intents (#20581)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/external_comp/bt_fast_pair.rst

* Input device (see the :ref:`fast_pair_input_device` sample)
* Locator tag (see the :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag` sample)

.. _ug_bt_fast_pair_provisioning_register_firmware_update_intent:

Firmware update intent
----------------------

> To support the firmware update intent feature, follow the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support the firmware update intent feature, complete the following steps:
```

* Input device (see the :ref:`fast_pair_input_device` sample)
* Locator tag (see the :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag` sample)

.. _ug_bt_fast_pair_provisioning_register_firmware_update_intent:

Firmware update intent
----------------------

> Intents are established mechanism for app to app communication on the Android platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intents are an established mechanism for app-to-app communication on the Android platform.
```

In this particular case, the firmware update intent is used by Fast Pair to notify the companion app about the need to update the Provider's firmware.
A companion app is an Android application that is typically developed for a device model.

> It often unlocks additional interactions with a device that are not supported at the Android system level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It often unlocks additional interactions with a device, which are not supported at the Android system level.
```

Companion apps are typically used to configure device parameters or update their firmware.

> Further details on the Android intent feature for firmware updates can be found in the `Fast Pair firmware update intent`_ documentation section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further details on the Android intent feature for firmware updates, see the `Fast Pair firmware update intent`_ section.
```

To configure your device model in the Google Nearby Devices console for support of the firmware update intent feature, complete the following steps:

1. Select the appropriate option in the **Firmware Type** list.
   The default **Unspecified** selection disables the intent feature for firmware updates.

> #. Set the firmware version string in the **Firmware Version** field.
> #. Set the companion app package name in the **Companion App Package Name** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Enter the firmware version string in the **Firmware Version** field.
#. Enter the companion app package name in the **Companion App Package Name** field.
```

> See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_firmware_update_intent` to learn how to prepare your Provider firmware to support for firmware update intent feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_firmware_update_intent` to learn how to prepare your Provider firmware to support the firmware update intent feature.
```

See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_use_case` for more details about the use cases of the Google Fast Pair application.

.. _ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_firmware_update_intent:

Firmware update intent
======================

To use the Android intent feature for firmware updates, you must support the Device Information Service (DIS) and its Firmware Revision characteristic.

> All other DIS characteristics can be disabled if they are not used for other purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable all other DIS characteristics if they are not used for other purposes.
```

> To enable the Zephyr DIS module and the Firmware Revision characteristic, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV` Kconfig options.
> If you use the Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:app-version-details` feature and define the :file:`VERSION` file in your project, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV_STR` Kconfig option is automatically set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the Zephyr DIS module and the Firmware Revision characteristic, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV` Kconfig options.
If you use Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:app-version-details` feature and define the :file:`VERSION` file in your project, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV_STR` Kconfig option is automatically set.
```

> Otherwise, you must set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV_STR` Kconfig option explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV_STR` Kconfig option explicitly.
```

See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_provisioning_register_firmware_update_intent` for information on how to configure the Google Nearby Device console to support this feature.

> Further details on the Android intent feature for firmware updates can be found in the `Fast Pair firmware update intent`_ documentation section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further details on the Android intent feature for firmware updates, see the `Fast Pair firmware update intent`_ section.
```

See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_use_case` for more details about the use cases of the Google Fast Pair application.

.. _ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_firmware_update_intent:

Firmware update intent
======================

> See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_provisioning_register_firmware_update_intent` for a basic introduction regarding the firmware update intent feature and for information on how to configure the Google Nearby Device console to support this feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_provisioning_register_firmware_update_intent` for a basic introduction regarding the firmware update intent feature and for information on how to configure your device in the Google Nearby Device console to support this feature.
```

See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_use_case` for more details about the use cases of the Google Fast Pair application.

.. _ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_firmware_update_intent:

> Firmware update intent

Reviewer: Can you think of a bit different name as you already have a section with the exactly same name earlier in the doc?

Author: We used the same approach for the "FMDN extension" section name that appears 6 times here. The idea is that certain features require certain actions at each integration steps:

Step 1 -> Configuration of the Google Nearby Device console
Step 2 -> Configuration of the GATT service in the firmware 
...
Step x ->

The user is supposed to go through all integration steps and make sure that they follow all the guidelines if they are interested in certain feature (e.g. FMDN extension. firmware update intent).

======================

See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_provisioning_register_firmware_update_intent` for a basic introduction regarding the firmware update intent feature and for information on how to configure your device in the Google Nearby Device console to support this feature.

> To use the Android intent feature for firmware updates, you must support the Device Information Service (DIS) and its Firmware Revision characteristic.

Reviewer: ... you must support -> your device must support?

You can disable all other DIS characteristics if they are not used for other purposes.

To enable the Zephyr DIS module and the Firmware Revision characteristic, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV` Kconfig options.
If you use Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:app-version-details` feature and define the :file:`VERSION` file in your project, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV_STR` Kconfig option is automatically set.
Otherwise, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS_FW_REV_STR` Kconfig option explicitly.

> If your device model has support for the FMDN extension, also follow the additional guidelines to authenticate the connection before the firmware version read operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your device model supports the FMDN extension, also follow the additional guidelines to authenticate the connection before the firmware version read operation.
```

> If your device model has support for the FMDN extension, you must also follow additional guidelines to authenticate connection before the firmware version read opeartion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your device model has support for the FMDN extension, also follow the additional guidelines to authenticate the connection before the firmware version read operation.
```

> For further details, see the the :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_fmdn_info_callbacks_conn_authenticated` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further details, see the :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_fmdn_info_callbacks_conn_authenticated` section.
```

The connected peer authentication is indicated by the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.conn_authenticated` callback.
This callback is triggered on a successful provisioning state read operation over the Beacon Actions characteristic.
A successful operation proves that the connected peer has at least one of the Provider's Account Key.

A typical use case for this callback is to authenticate the connected peer and allow them to read the firmware version to support firmware update intents on the Android platform.
The firmware version can be read over the Firmware Revision characteristic in the Device Information Service (DIS).
It is assumed that this characteristic contains the identifying information and should not be readable in all circumstances to prevent tracking.
The alternative authentication mechanism can be used if the defined device model from the Google Nearby Devices console supports Bluetooth bonding during the Fast Pair procedure.
In this case, bonded devices are allowed to read the firmware version.

> Further details on firmware updates in the FMDN extension context can be found in the `Fast Pair FMDN firmware updates`_ documentation section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further details on firmware updates in the FMDN extension context, see the `Fast Pair FMDN firmware updates`_ section.
```

> See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_firmware_update_intent` for general information on how to enable support for firmware update intent feature in Fast Pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_firmware_update_intent` for general information on how to enable support for the firmware update intent feature in Fast Pair.
```

The Fast Pair advertising frames make the affected Provider visible to nearby Seekers.
Once one of the Seeker devices connects to the accessory and synchronizes the clock, the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.clock_synced` callback is called to indicate that the Provider is no longer required to advertise the Fast Pair payload.

The connected peer authentication is indicated by the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.conn_authenticated` callback.
This callback is triggered on a successful provisioning state read operation over the Beacon Actions characteristic.
A successful operation proves that the connected peer has at least one of the Provider's Account Key.

A typical use case for this callback is to authenticate the connected peer and allow them to read the firmware version to support firmware update intents on the Android platform.
The firmware version can be read over the Firmware Revision characteristic in the Device Information Service (DIS).

> It is assumed that this characteristic contains the identifying information and should not be readable in all circumstances to prevent tracking.

Author: There are no general (Fast Pair core) guidelines that aim to limit access to the DIS characteristic. That's why I do not want to move this information to the general part.

> The alternative authentication mechanism can be used if the defined device model from the Google Nearby Devices console supports Bluetooth bonding during the Fast Pair procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The alternative authentication mechanism can be used if the defined device model from the Google Nearby Devices console does not support Bluetooth bonding during the Fast Pair procedure.
```

Author: I described the authentication flow with the callback.

This sentence is about notifying the user about the alternative authentication flow for devices that DO bond.

Reviewer 2: btw. Shouldn't it be `An alternative authentication mechanism ...` if we are introducing a new mechanism here?

> In this case, bonded devices are allowed to read the firmware version.

Author: Yes, but these are documented elsewhere. The Firmware Updates section in the FMDN specification does not indicate the preference regarding the authentication method and I would like to do the same here.

The Fast Pair advertising frames make the affected Provider visible to nearby Seekers.
Once one of the Seeker devices connects to the accessory and synchronizes the clock, the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.clock_synced` callback is called to indicate that the Provider is no longer required to advertise the Fast Pair payload.

.. _ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_fmdn_info_callbacks_conn_authenticated:

Connection authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The connected peer authentication is indicated by the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.conn_authenticated` callback.
This callback is triggered on a successful provisioning state read operation over the Beacon Actions characteristic.

> A successful operation proves that the connected peer has at least one of the Provider's Account Key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A successful operation proves that the connected peer has at least one of the Provider's Account Keys.
```

A typical use case for this callback is to authenticate the connected peer and allow them to read the firmware version to support firmware update intents on the Android platform.
See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_provisioning_register_firmware_update_intent` for general information about the firmware update intent feature and the required configuration steps in the Google Nearby Device console.

> See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_firmware_update_intent` to learn how to prepare your Provider firmware to support for the firmware update intent feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_firmware_update_intent` to learn how to prepare your Provider firmware to support the firmware update intent feature.
```

> You must satisfy the requirements from the linked sections before following guidelines from the next paragraph that are related to the FMDN extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must meet the requirements in the linked sections before following the guidelines related to the FMDN extension.
```

The firmware version can be read over the Firmware Revision characteristic in the Device Information Service (DIS).
It is assumed that DIS characteristics contains the identifying information and access to these characteristics should be limited to prevent tracking.

> An alternative authentication mechanism can be used if the defined device model from the Google Nearby Devices console supports Bluetooth bonding during the Fast Pair procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use an alternative authentication mechanism if the defined device model from the Google Nearby Devices console supports Bluetooth bonding during the Fast Pair procedure.
```

The Fast Pair advertising frames make the affected Provider visible to nearby Seekers.
Once one of the Seeker devices connects to the accessory and synchronizes the clock, the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.clock_synced` callback is called to indicate that the Provider is no longer required to advertise the Fast Pair payload.

.. _ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_fmdn_info_callbacks_conn_authenticated:

Connection authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The connected peer authentication is indicated by the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.conn_authenticated` callback.
This callback is triggered on a successful provisioning state read operation over the Beacon Actions characteristic.
A successful operation proves that the connected peer has at least one of the Provider's Account Keys.

> A typical use case for this callback is to authenticate the connected peer and allow them to read the firmware version to support firmware update intents on the Android platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical use case for this callback is to authenticate the connected peer and allow it to read the firmware version to support firmware update intents on the Android platform.
```

The Fast Pair advertising frames make the affected Provider visible to nearby Seekers.
Once one of the Seeker devices connects to the accessory and synchronizes the clock, the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.clock_synced` callback is called to indicate that the Provider is no longer required to advertise the Fast Pair payload.

.. _ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_fmdn_info_callbacks_conn_authenticated:

Connection authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The connected peer authentication is indicated by the :c:member:`bt_fast_pair_fmdn_info_cb.conn_authenticated` callback.
This callback is triggered on a successful provisioning state read operation over the Beacon Actions characteristic.
A successful operation proves that the connected peer has at least one of the Provider's Account Key.

A typical use case for this callback is to authenticate the connected peer and allow them to read the firmware version to support firmware update intents on the Android platform.

> See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_gatt_service_firmware_update_intent` for general information about the firmware update intent feature.

Reviewer 2: The information was moved to `ug_bt_fast_pair_provisioning_register_firmware_update_intent`

Author: I have split it into two sentences to mention both links
